[MUSIC]
>> Scott: So let's go ahead and
walk through this solution.
Creating route to the widgets feature.
Let's do that.
>> [SOUND].
>> Scott: Let's go over
to our app folder here.
I'm not sure that I like
this syntax better.
I might just go back to type script here.
There we go.
This isn't that good either.
Sublime can do it.
Adam needs to figure it out.
So we'll just say widget, a name.
Widget seems appropriate.
Add a component, the widget component.
>> Speaker 2: It's already
name widgets I believe.
>> Scott: Is it?
Okay.
Well that's what it shall be.
Widgets from
/widgets/widgets.
>> Scott: All right.
So we made a route, and
just by doing that, we should be
able to navigate to it, manually.
Right.
So if we come in here,
should be able to come in here and
see widgets.
And we get that.
All right, so
just by setting up that configuration
we can mainly navigate to it.
We haven't set up any configuration
in the app yet so let's do that.
So the next thing is use the route link
to navigate to the widgets feature.
Okay, let's do that.
So if we go into our app.html,
can set up another
routerLink here that
will go to links.widgets.
>> Scott: Widgets, and
then down in app.typescript,
well just make another
entry here into our links.
>> Scott: Widgets.
That's gonna break.
There we go.
So now we have a widgets link up here
in the navbar that we can navigate to.
Any questions on this so far?
Anybody get stuck on one of these parts?
A little confusion.
The next thing we want to
do is create method in
the items component that imperatively
navigates to that route.
Let's go over to items and
we'll go to the items component here.
And we know we're going to use the router
so we might as well just import that now.
So I'll just go do that.
>> Scott: So we get the router service.
Go over to the constructor here.
>> Scott: Inject it into the constructor.
And then, now,
we just need to create some functionality.
So we'll just say, go to widgets.
>> Scott: The start
router.navigate to widgets.
It's now easy to wire this up
to something inside of here.
Let's just, yeah, let's just get rid of
the widgets component, that's at the top.
And now we'll just add
a button that has a click
that says go to widgets.
>> Speaker 2: It's spelled
differently down below.
>> Scott: Ok, thank you.
>> Speaker 3: No, that was teamwork.
>> Scott: Yes, it was.
Here we go.
>> Speaker 2: No,
it's still spell different.
>> Scott: Still spell different.
>> Speaker 2: It's got
to widgets down below.
>> Scott: Is it?
>> Scott: Yeah, it is.
>> Scott: There we go, go to widgets.
All right, so now, if we go to Items and
we click on this ugly button,
it will go to a widgets.
All right?
So now, we got that set up.
Any questions on that part?
All right.
Everybody understand that we need to make
sure we inject this service in
order to call the navigate method.
That's where it comes from.
And we pass it into
the constructor of the component.
And because I initialized
this service as private,
this really just makes it,
by doing that, it's just saying this.
Router equals router.
That what is doing.
I didn't have to set that up.
And if you want to check that out,
"Where is the build?
I was thinking random memory.
Never mind.
Whats it really going to build?
but that is really what I was doing.
So the next thing we need to do
is add both route parameters and
query parameters, which are pretty much
the same thing, to the widgets route.
Okay, let's do that.
So, let's say widgets and then id.
Let's look at the widgets service here.
Widget name.
Let's give these widgets ID's.
>> Scott: Let's do that.
>> Scott: It was right here.
And description.
>> Scott: So let's build this up so
we can use this.
>> Scott: Cool.
>> Scott: So
this is just shorthand syntax.
Because it's only one parameter,
I can skip the return key word.
It's implicitly gonna return.
Because it's multi-line I have to
wrap it in parentheses, right here.
>> Scott: So, if that's kind
of confusing let me do this.
>> Scott: It's just in this.
>> Speaker 2: Post the error
that it complains about.
>> Scott: It's complaining about that.
It's not.
What is it complaining about?
Well now this is an object,
now I have to wrap this.
I need to wrap that in parentheses,
so that's going to stay like that.
There we go.
It was complaining because it didn't
know if this was an object literal or
a function body bracket.
That's why it was complaining.
So I route the around it and
I don't have to put the return key word
because it's implicit, it's implied.
So yeah,
we're just gonna return this for the.
We added the IDs there,
I'm gonna go ahead and
make a function inside of Right here.
Let's expand the gotoWidgets
to take a widget number.
Or id which is string.
So we'll say id id is ID.
so we can use the object shorthand
method and just put id there.
That'll work.
If the property name
matches a local variable
that you're going to assign to
the property name, you can just write.
The name once and it will assign it.
So it's equivalent doing this ID, ID.
I can just say ID.
>> Scott: So we'll do that.
>> Scott: And then inside the widgets
component we need to anybody remember
the service I need to inject in here
to get access to the parameters?
>> Speaker 4: [CROSSTALK]
>> Scott: All right, exactly.
>> Scott: So we got route params in here.
We just need to place it in here.
>> Scott: Param, yeah.
>> Scott: Cool, so now we got that.
And now what we can do is we can
just grab the active widget.
Which would be this dot-widgets-dot-find.
What the widget
whose widget.id
=== params.id
ID.
>> Speaker 5: Based on integer?
>> Scott: [SOUND] Yeah it probably will,
there,
will fail on the lookups, good catch.
Active Widget equals a string or
an object.
>> Scott: Or yeah.
>> Scott: Ooh, that's a lot.
Let's break that off on the next line.
There we go.
So, then we go to active-widget and
then what we can do,
is we can just put the active-widget here.
>> Scott: I will say ActiveWidget.name,
description.
So let's check it out.
If it all works we should have the active
widget here, so let's check it out.
Something broke.
id was not included in
the parameters passed in.
So where ever, I think I know where,
it's that button that I left somewhere.
This thing or-
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
you're not passing in an ID.
>> Scott: Yeah, I'm not passing and ID.
We'll just default to
something really quick.
>> Scott: Let's default to one for now.
>> Scott: Okay.
Really?
>> Speaker 5: Cuz you're
already on that page?
Change the URL in your browser to open it.
>> Scott: Yeah, that's true,
we are already on this page.
Let's say two.
Let's refresh real quick.
So now we get ID was not included.
>> Speaker 5: Is that
the link at the very top?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott: Yeah.
I think that's it.
Link.this, yeah its this right here.
>> Scott: Type number is not
assigned by the type string.
Really?
>> Speaker 2: You got anything in your
default assignment?
>> Scott: Right here?
>> Speaker 2: String that you're passing.
>> Scott: Here.
Good old TypeScript.
That's why we use it.
[LAUGH]
And refresh.
And you don't wanna refresh.
Now you refresh.
>> Scott: Okay, I'll refresh it.
There we go.
Okay.
So now, click on Widgets.
There it is, widget 1.
I am active widget 1.
If we change this to 2,
Widget 2, widget 3, so forth.
Any questions on the parameters?
Accessing those and
adding dynamic things to the page?
Everybody got that?
Okay.
So now, the child stuff,
let's just do that.
Let's just get it out of the way.
I know there's questions.
[LAUGH] I know there's questions, we
already have the demo one set up.
So, I could do it again, but.
Is there any questions on the child stuff?
>> Scott: Everybody go through the example
of getting the child thing set up?
No?
>> Speaker 3: I'm getting an exception,
primary outlet is already registered.
Is that a common?
>> Scott: That's because you
probably have used default.
Twice on the same component,
route and config.
You can only use use default for
one route per routing config and
that's where the error comes from.
So if you have that you probably ran to
the same thing that I have where I was
trying to set up it's like
a grandchild as a default.
Put use default on that child's router
config and not the top level config.
So on the nested router config,
use default on that path.
>> Speaker 5: Does that mean that if
you define route configs in all Places.
You only get one use default
across the union of all of those.
>> Speaker 2: You get one use default or
is it just within that per route of the.
>> Scott: Yeah, per route of the.